IWC organizations is a service that we can use to collect, organize and manage multiple U.S. accounts.
Now it's also useful creating IWC accounts and having a consolidated bill from multiple IWC accounts.
So it's a really useful tool and we'll see some additional features as well.
In this section.
So organizations allows you to consolidate multiple IWC accounts into an organization, and then you
can centrally managed those accounts.
Now you can also create the accounts using the organization so it can automatically create IWC accounts
for you and then you have that centralized management of them.
Now there are two different feature sets for IWC organizations, and you've really got to remember this.
So the first one is called Consolidated Billing.
Now, what consolidated billing gives you is it gives you the ability to have a single bill in the main
account, which is called the management accounts.
That's the account which you have at the top of the hierarchy.
You connect the other accounts to it by creating an organization in that management accounts.
Now, when you have an organization with multiple accounts, you can then have a consolidated bill.
So that means you have one credit card and one bill.
You can still see where the costs are coming from.
But it means you only pay in one place.
A consolidated bill is also good when you get volume pricing discounts.
So, for example, some services have a tiered structure where the more you use, the less you pay per
unit.
So with a consolidated bill, you actually leverage that capability by aggregating the usage of a service
across your accounts.
The second feature set is known as all features, and this gives you some additional capabilities,
including service, control policies and tax policies.
So if you need to use those, you have to use, all features will learn about what these are shortly.
And organizations, we have roots accounts.
These are the accounts through which you create the organization and then connects in the other accounts.
And that's also known as the management account used to be known as the master account.
So sometimes you'll see that terminology as well.
We then have organizational units.
These are essentially a type of organizational container, and you can apply things like service control
policies and tax policies to the Blues again.
We'll see how to do that shortly.
So these types of policies are applied to the root accounts auto use with consolidated billing.
You have a paying account and then you have your linked accounts.
So the paying account is the one that actually pays the bill.
Now is independent and it cannot access the resources of the other accounts.
So the linked accounts are essentially the members within the organization.
Those are member accounts and they are also independent.
So essentially, all accounts in the organization are independent.
They have their own roles and users and groups, but they're centrally managed and we can push policies
onto those accounts, which we'll see now.
So we have an organization within that organization.
We have a management account, and the management account essentially is at the root of the hierarchy.
We can then create other accounts like here we have a production accounts and a development account.
We can launch resources in each of these accounts, and these are completely separate from each other.
We can then form this hierarchy within the organization.
So here we have created separate organizational units and we've put our accounts into those organizational
units.
We can then apply service control policies and tax policies to our organizational units.
ASCAP can actually control the maximum available permissions within the account, so it's a security
control that you can apply to your member accounts, as well as your root account to a certain extent
within your organization with organizations.
You can also create accounts programmatically using the organization's API.
And in this case, we've created a test account, deployed some resources and also connected it to the
same 0U as the development account.
You can also use IWC single sign on the U.S. so service using an on prem directory as well, like maybe
an Active Directory and this organization, we've enabled all features.
So we get a consolidated bill and we get the usage of service control policies as well.
Another thing we can do in an organization is enable cloud trial in the management account and it will
apply to member accounts as well.
So you've got that centralized control over how you set up your API auditing within your organization,
so that can be really useful for compliance purposes to make sure that all accounts are adhering to
those requirements.
So that's it for the first part of the ferry.
What we'll do in the next lesson is we're actually going to go and create an organization in our IWC
accounts and then we're going to add a new account.
So we have a second linked accounts within our organization.